1.
Canvas was initially introduced by Apple for use in their Mac OS X WebKit component in 2004. WebKit powered applications like Dashboard widgets and the Safari Browser.

2.
The canvas tag/element is an HTML5 element which can be used to draw graphics using JavaScript.
2D stands for two-dimensional.

3.
The canvas element is only a container for graphics. You must use JavaScript to draw the graphics.

4.
The only other attributes on can set on the canvas element are the width and height attributes.

5.
If ctx.fillRect (0,0,600,400) is set in main.js, for example, the the default canvas size of 300w x 150h would be rendered to the page.

6.
Nothing will render to the page.

7.
It will only render 300w x 150h.

8.
We first need to create a context. A context is an object whose methods provide the drawing interface.

9.
There are two main drawing styles: "2d" for two-dimensional graphics, and "webgl" for three-dimensional graphics through the OpenGL interface.

10.
Once we have retrieved the element with the id of "canvas", our canvas element, we can access the drawing context using the HTML5 canvas built-in .getContext() method.
<canvas id="canvas"></canvas>

11.
rectangles and paths

12.
Boxes, polygons, and circles.
All other shapes must be created by combining one or more paths. But there are a whole bunch of built-in canvas path drawing functions which help us create complex shapes.

13.
The first is fillRect().
Parameters:x, y, width, height
x: the x-axis coordinate of the upper-left corner of the rectangle (the x-axis coordinate starting point).
y: the y-axis coordinate of the upper-left corner of the rectangle (the y-axis coordinate starting point).
width: the rectangle's width. Positive values are to the right. Negative values are to the left.
height: the rectangle's height. Positive values are down. Negative values are up.

The second is strokeRect().
Parameters:x, y, width, height
x: the x-axis coordinate of the rectangle's starting point.
y: the y-axis coordinate of the rectangle's starting point.
width: The rectangle's width. Positive values are to the right, and negative values are to the left.
height: the rectangle's height. Positive values are down, and negative values are up.

The third is clearRect().
Parameters:x, y, width, height
x: the x-axis coordinate of the rectangle's starting point.
y: the y-axis coordinate of the rectangle's starting point.
width: the rectangle's width. Positive values are to the right. Negative values are to the left.
height: the rectangle's height. Positive values are down. Negative values are up.

14.
a list of points connected by segments of lines that can be different shapes. They can be curved or not, and of different widths and colors.
A path, or a subpath, can be closed.

15.
Draw a path.
Use drawing commands to draw into the path.
Once a path has been created, stroke() or fill() the path to render it.